TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
FEMALE CLIENT: Hi. So, I'm not doing very well. (inaudible at 00:18).
THERAPIST: What's been happening?
FEMALE CLIENT: Nothing, just (pause), you know, I [don't know] (ph) that anything's been happening but...
THERAPIST: I should have probably asked a more general question than this.
FEMALE CLIENT: I don't know.
MALE CLIENT: So you left (ph) Friday, [is that right] (ph)?
FEMALE CLIENT: Yes, yes.
MALE CLIENT: So Friday Tanya had quit her job at The Coffee Shop or did afterwards or Thursday somewhere in there. Put in her two weeks' notice and so now she's back into looking at jobs, which is (inaudible at 01:15) set of stressors.
FEMALE CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. (crying) I'm sorry.
MALE CLIENT: [It's OK] (ph).
FEMALE CLIENT: (crying) Yeah, I'm having a hard time keeping myself safe. And [Ethan and me have] (ph) talked about it. [00:02:42]
THERAPIST: When you say a hard time keeping yourself safe does that mean resisting suicidal urges?
FEMALE CLIENT: Yes.
(silence)
THERAPIST: What's been happening between the two of you, as this is very you know, continues to feel worst.
FEMALE CLIENT: Well, I'm very tired (inaudible at 03:59). I've been very distant.
MALE CLIENT: I'm still recovering from last week, so I've been reading. Just the beginning of last week, it's not a good time. So I've been reading.
THERAPIST: Does that help?
MALE CLIENT: Usually. It's helped [some of this time] (ph).
THERAPIST: What has been most difficult? I'm sure there are a lot of things that are difficult about this. [00:04:56]
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: I don't know.
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: I feel like that ought to be an easy question or something. It's a rank-ordering (ph) question (inaudible at 05:47) answer it.
FEMALE CLIENT: Not necessarily. Not necessarily an easy question.
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: It might be unpredictability. That's Tanya's apparently doing really badly today but yesterday she looked like she was doing relatively well, you know, as well as I'd seen her in several weeks, which may or may not have been true but that was what it looked like.
You might be feeling like I feed back into whatever mood Tanya has, it's just that (pause) it's just that I feel like I have to control any response that I have to several degrees back, you know, so that it doesn't itself cause more negative things.
THERAPIST: Holding back anger, sadness?
MALE CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Both? More?
MALE CLIENT: Both those. (pause) That's about it. Negative spectrum emotions, I guess. Mostly anger and sadness.
THERAPIST: Do you think I'm sorry, go ahead.
MALE CLIENT: No (inaudible at 07:53).
THERAPIST: Do you think you'd feel comfortable talking a little more about that in here?
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Maybe. I'm not convinced that it's a great idea but I just...
THERAPIST: Are you worried it will make things worse?
MALE CLIENT: Oh, sure, yeah.
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: It's just that's the argument from the other direction that Tanya's presumably imagining things that are worse anyway so having an actual discussion about it probably can't hurt, you know. (inaudible at 09:41) from the moment's setting. I don't know.
(silence)
FEMALE CLIENT: I know you think there's probably something to it.
(silence)
THERAPIST: How do you mean Tanya?
FEMALE CLIENT: That usually is what happens (ph). The things I imagine are not any better than what might actually be going on.
THERAPIST: Do you want to hear some of James's reactions? Do you feel it would be too overwhelming?
FEMALE CLIENT: I don't know. I don't see how it could possibly be worse than [I am] (ph) so maybe now's the time. (pause) James's (ph) not very helpful.
THERAPIST: Well, that's a pragmatic view.
(silence)
FEMALE CLIENT: I'm sorry (inaudible at 12:24)
THERAPIST: Well, let's try.
MALE CLIENT: OK. (inaudible at 12:36)
THERAPIST: Try and talk a little bit more about your experience that you feel you're needing to hold back, about even with the last few days or week have been like for you.
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: I'm tired and I have a lot to do.
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: We've been playing games, we have a games night with one of our good friends. This has been a friend of ours for years and years, since before we met. [00:15:30] He really likes to play board games, things like that, or has just started to like to do that again in the last year or so. So we've been doing that. (pause) Saturday I went to that (ph). We played a game that's his that he's been playing for a long time and none of us has played nearly as much and so he wins most of the time. And then I win occasionally and Tanya has not been winning much in the last several weeks and it's very hard for her.
So when we were leaving she was very upset about the combination of being upset about not having won the games. [00:16:31]
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: And I just didn't have the energy. I didn't say very much because I didn't have the energy to deal with Tanya spiraling towards suicide literally over card games. And I just (inaudible at 17:17) emotion whereas I felt anger, I felt upset, irritated, hurt. We'd done the thing spontaneously because Tanya came home from work and said, "Well, let's do it tonight," because we kind of have a weekly date but it slides from week to week, depending on schedules. (pause) So in a sense, I made time to do this, instead of working, instead of doing something else. And then this thing was supposed to be a good thing and just, like, made everything radically worse.
I guess Sunday was a similar day in a lot of ways, although it wasn't Tanya's fault at all and Tanya wasn't as upset. We'd been trying to make some, like, wooden alphabet blocks for our nieces and for a couple of friends' children for a long time. No one in the world sells 2 inch wood blocks apparently anymore, so we spent most of Sunday trying to find those because they should be easy to find and we had found them before (inaudible at 18:30). That was another time where and this had nothing to do with Tanya but this was me. Just felt like I had wasted a large amount of time for something that seemed good and important. [We really had] (ph) it worked out.
We went to the a service in the evening, which is usually, like, someone reads short passages and then there are carols. Apparently at the church we go to now it's more of a choral concert than that sort of service. It was OK, it was very beautiful, it was nice. They have this one priest there that I really don't like and he's the priest in charge. And we don't normally don't see him at all because he doesn't like to come to the Sunday evening service, but he was there and just (inaudible at 19:48). Tanya and I talked some of the service afterwards but that quickly devolved (ph) into (pause) a conversation about my feelings about this priest. And Tanya doesn't love the guy but really doesn't want to hear so many bad things about the church because it's been very important to her recently. And so it just (pause) got to a place fairly quickly where we couldn't talk about anything at all in that context and I just (inaudible at 20:30).
THERAPIST: What was it like for you, Tanya, hearing James's, you know, perspectives or feelings about the priest?
FEMALE CLIENT: Just (long pause) I guess I don't like the guy very much but he bothers me less than he does James and (pause) for whatever reason (pause) I don't find it cathartic to talk about not liking him. I find it troubling and upsetting and it makes things harder for me and worse for me and (pause) so I but I also really want to be listening and, you know, validating James's feelings because they are valid. The guy is pretty much a jackass. Sorry. Yeah, he's a jackass but he's the kind of jackass that I'm much more used to than James is. (pause) So I feel like I'm torn between wanting to keep talking and not being able to keep talking because I'm getting upset. [00:22:14]
THERAPIST: What about hearing James's negative feelings upset you?
FEMALE CLIENT: I think that there wasn't anything I could do about them. (pause) You know, we're at a different church. I would say, "Well, let's just go to a different church," but, you know, I'm pretty committed to this place and we don't to deal with John very much. And yes (ph), I'm not going to say, "Let's (inaudible at 22:57) and go somewhere else." And so that leaves us in the position of I guess being vulnerable to this guy and I don't feel like there's anything that I can do about that and that's rude (ph).
I really (pause) don't like the idea that I'm putting James in a position where people like John have the power to make him unhappy, but that is the position I'm putting him in.
(silence)
THERAPIST: It's helpful to hear what makes it difficult to listen to James. But I'm thinking that I also didn't want to disrupt your flow because you were coming up with some things that you were (ph feeling.
MALE CLIENT: No, I think it was important to hear what Tanya had to say there (ph). (pause) It's a little confusing.
THERAPIST: Can you say more about that?
MALE CLIENT: Sure. I mean, I went to that church voluntarily. Tanya was reading and I thought, you know, in part I wanted to see her read because I like to see her read and do things she enjoys doing and I wanted to support her. But I also have enjoyed going to the church at this place, so it's kind of one of the big ones of the year so I wanted to see what it was like. And I very much enjoyed except for this relatively short period of time when the priest was involved. (pause) I just think the key is I was there voluntarily. (pause) Maybe the other key is that just (pause) the guy has the power to rattle me some, in part, because I really don't like him and he's standing in a place talking about, you know, God is love and things like that and I really (ph) don't like him so it's a real disconnect there. But I don't think that's a bad disconnect in some ways. I think that's a spiritually useful one because in theory that message of Christ is love for all, regardless, and so there's a real challenge involved there, but in a good way. I don't know that I have much else to add there other than just (pause) it's interesting to have you say here and now, "Yes, he's a jackass," because you really don't seem very willing to say that (inaudible at 26:56).
FEMALE CLIENT: Oh, I thought I pretty much agreed with you to the extents that you said it. So, OK.
MALE CLIENT: Yeah, I'm not really sure what to say there. Clearly we weren't communicating (pause) perfectly in that situation.
THERAPIST: So were you feeling in that situation that Tanya was sort of trying to minimize your feelings?
MALE CLIENT: Yeah. And it may not have been what she was saying but it may just have been the sense that she wanted the conversation to end, (pause) which clearly has different reasons than her liking the priest and not wanting to hear bad things about him. Which I didn't really think was going on it just is a little unclear. [00:28:11]
THERAPIST: So Tanya, do you feel that one of the things that makes it difficult for you to hear [sort of] (ph) how James is feeling badly in some way, whether it be anger or sadness, do you feel guilty about it?
FEMALE CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Because James you said several times in our meetings, "It's my choice. I have free will." It seems like this is an ongoing explicit or implicit dialogue between the two of you, you know, that Tanya feels guilty for having done something or making you do something and your counterpoint is, "I'm doing this fallitionally (ph)."
MALE CLIENT: Yes, that sounds about right. (pause) I'm not sure that's a useful dialogue to be having but it's the one we're having. [00:29:16]
FEMALE CLIENT: I feel like I hear (ph) you when you say it's your choice. I hear you but it's hard for it to actually sink in, I guess.
THERAPIST: What's the barrier of absorption?
FEMALE CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I don't know. It's just that situation where I (pause) rationally know something to be true but I'm utterly convinced that it's not true and I don't know how to resolve that. I don't know why I'm convinced that it's not true. [00:30:33]
(silence)
FEMALE CLIENT: I guess there's some equivalence for me between saying, "James would not be doing X if it were not for me," and saying, "I am making James do X." [00:31:52]
(silence)
THERAPIST: Where are each you right now? [00:33:17]
(silence)
MALE CLIENT: I'm sitting here thinking that I don't know what to do with Tanya's guilt. She has a (inaudible at 33:41) and more or less all the time and uses it to feed the depression or something. I just don't know what to do with it.
FEMALE CLIENT: I'm just very, very sad and I'm having a hard time. (pause) It's just much harder for me to do anything than usual. Well, not than usual but it's very hard for me to do anything, including, you know, be here. And so I'm trying but I'm having a hard time.
THERAPIST: It's a hard time just staying in and staying focused or staying present?
FEMALE CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Where are you drifting to?
FEMALE CLIENT: (inaudible at 34:34)
THERAPIST: Did you feel that way at the beginning of the session or at some point during the session?
(crosstalk)
(silence)
FEMALE CLIENT: I don't know what to do about the guilt either.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 35:39) I have one or two thoughts about that but I was also thinking James about the examples that you gave about, you know, different feelings that you've had at different points over the week. They seem to all kind of one theme is this feeling of helplessness and being ineffective, ineffectual. This reason about Tanya with the block story is like you're trying your hardest to make something happen, to find something, and it's just not working and it's not clear why people don't make these blocks anymore, which were certainly common when I was a kid. But there's something, like, that doesn't really make sense or I guess shouldn't be so hard and yet it is and it's (inaudible at 36:22) this sense of powerlessness.
MALE CLIENT: Yes, that's about right.
THERAPIST: Please feel free to add on.
MALE CLIENT: Helpless is not a word that I use to describe my situation. Powerless maybe, but helpless is not exactly right (ph). Ineffectual, yes. I feel like I am ineffective or that I keep doing things and they don't stay done. I spent a day planning over holiday travel plans a week ago and then the next day Tanya comes in and says she has to quit The Coffee Shop, it's killing her. Well, we centered the entire plans around her having a week off from The Coffee Shop so she could have just told me the day before. I wouldn't have wasted my time making these plans that we (pause) we acted inside a very specific set of constraints for a very specific reason that then went away the next day. [00:37:35]
And I feel like that's how a large number of things go in my life these days. I have to do things under fairly tight constraints and so the problems are hard. I work to solve them and it takes a long time, longer than I feel like it should, and then they don't stay solved.
THERAPIST: Did you get angry at Tanya (inaudible at 37:59)?
MALE CLIENT: Not in at any specific moment really or not for any one period of time because she wanted to kill herself at the time and so it was a crisis to handle. So, like, I sort of went through the feelings of being upset without ever spending a lot of time on them.
THERAPIST: If you knew, Tanya, at that moment that James was, you know, upset, that he had to sort of go into extra efforts to accommodate you to find out the schedules then (ph) the plan has changed, do you think that would have just been too hard for you to hear?
FEMALE CLIENT: I mean, I thought that James was upset or was not happy and yeah, I think it would have been difficult to hear but I sort of knew anyway. [00:39:16]
MALE CLIENT: I feel like it that moment that was probably not the biggest thing about which I could have been upset sensibly. Just needing to leave The Coffee Shop unravels all of the plans that we have attempted to put in place and leaves us without Tanya having any specific job and puts us back in the job search game, which Tanya really doesn't want to be in.
But then there's this level at which that's not a problem, that's OK, because what we need to do is take care of Tanya and (pause) the hard part of the whole thing is, in a sense, to watch Tanya beating herself up about needing to leave this job at The Coffee Shop when she just needs to leave this job at The Coffee Shop. It's really not good for her. But not being able to admit or to face the idea that she needs to leave it until it's too late to do it with a (pause) graceful plan. Like, it's just haven't to wait until it's too far and then they (ph) can do something about it, but then there's no easy way to deal with it. It's all (pause) sharp shifts and (pause) instability and job searches, while (ph) with the pending threat of unemployment. [00:41:14]
THERAPIST: You said that several times (inaudible at 41:14) the unpredictability of it all, not knowing what's coming from day-to-day, in terms of how Tanya is doing or just, you know, plans that really can't quite be made and it sounds like kind of naturally that's who you are to begin with. And I think unpredictability is, I think, tough for most people but it really against your sort of style of being in the world.
MALE CLIENT: Yes, that's probably right.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Well, I was thinking, you know, a lot about what we talked about, you know, since have been meeting but certainly Friday where I think of both of you, but it sounds like especially you James were feeling kind of adrift. What is the plan? Is there any plan? You know, we create some sort of a basis of a plan, even if it's, you know, transitional. And so I've been thinking about that a lot and what can and can't be done. [00:42:26]
You know, in some ways the suffering that Tanya is, you know, faced with and undergoing, I mean, there's sort of inherently an unpredictability about it. And this is not to discount I'm simply just sort of wanting to point out the situation, not at all to discount your need for some structure. So, you know, my strong tendency is to build in, like, step one is this and step two is this because I hear, you know, how much both of you are really craving, yeah, some sort of predictability I think, especially you James, given, like, sort of who you are as a person and also because Tanya has been living with herself in this state of condition for quite some time. And so in a sense it's more new to you. The more intense exposure is new to you.
So I think in addition to talking about some practical steps, which I did talk to Ethan actually between when we saw and when we met and when you met him, just sort of talking about what the three of us talked about in terms of having some sort of plan in place, even if it doesn't cover all the bases, that there's something. So I did talk to him about that. I don't know if you talked to him about that too. [00:43:50]
FEMALE CLIENT: Yeah, I've talked to him about some. I talked to him today. I think (pause) (inaudible at 44:07)
MALE CLIENT: Yeah. On the way over here I said that when she talked about the job she was too so what will usually happen is she'll call Ethan and then Ethan will call her back several hours later. She's usually fine for that period of time because there's kind of an inability to timeline and it's bound to (inaudible at 44:32). And so what, as I understood, they talked about was just extending that for longer periods of time in a sense to say, "I'm going to be OK for 12 hours." Or, "I will be safe for 12 hours. I will check back then at that time and if I can't keep myself safe (ph) then we'll go to the hospital or some hospitalization scheme. And if I can't do it during that 12 hours then we'll go to the hospital (inaudible at 45:10)."
THERAPIST: That's a really interesting creative idea, the sort of putting a limit on the sort of (inaudible at 45:18) as a contourse (ph) rather than just being amorphous (ph). I really like that idea. Did you like that idea?
FEMALE CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And it's not a, you know, a (inaudible at 45:30), you know. Nothing really is at the moment. I don't know. How did you feel about that idea James?
MALE CLIENT: Fine. Like any plan that we come up with the fundamental problem is that Tanya wants to kill herself and on some level if she really wants to do it enough no one's going to stop her. So it's still susceptible to that problem but that's the fundamental problem. So accepting that that is more or less what it is then I think the plan is good.
THERAPIST: Yes. Here's what I'd like to do. We're going to need to stop in a moment. I think I mentioned at the beginning that I will often like to meet with each person individually toward the beginning, as it helps me. I mean, I don't know if there's any couple situation that's conventional but, you know, given how much it's very hard to have the energy to work on making the relationship better, you know, in this particular context. But I actually think there's a lot to be done even in, you know, providing space so that you James can feel safe enough to talk a little bit about what you're feeling. You can feel safe enough maybe enough to hear it or tell me how you're not feeling safe in hearing it and sort of sending down, sort of shifting the pattern a little bit that way. [00:46:52]
So there's a lot for us to do but I appreciate it in this very dramatic backdrop of Tanya's safety, so in that sense it's not conventional and I need to hold on to that to be able to take care of you guys. And so I'm thinking about things.
So why don't what I'd actually like to do next, if it would be OK to be meet with each of you individually and then come back together again. How does that sound?
FEMALE CLIENT: Sounds (inaudible at 47:19).
THERAPIST: Are you around, are you away?
MALE CLIENT: We're gone for the 24th through the 30th.
THERAPIST: OK, so it's like a six day period or something. So basically next week. You're gone next week, is that...
MALE CLIENT: Yeah, that's correct.
THERAPIST: So it's up to you. What I could do, if one of you one wanted to meet with me later in the week and then pick up, you know we're off next week and then pick up next week. I can do that. Or if you want to pick up whatever you want to do. I am available some of the time on Friday if you want to start there or whatever you guys needs from me.
FEMALE CLIENT: Yeah, I'm OK with that. That sounds good.
THERAPIST: Do you want to do that?
FEMALE CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: I have a slight preference for meeting with you James, just because the way I get to know both of you, meet (ph), you know. But I know that Tanya's getting more immediate attention and I want to make sure you're getting attention to. So would that be good if we met first? [00:48:23]
MALE CLIENT: Yeah, that's fine.
THERAPIST: What do I have? I could meet at 10:20 on is that right? Did I give or no, 10:10. I can meet at 10:10 on Friday morning on the 21st. Is that a possibility?
MALE CLIENT: Probably, because I normally have meet with my advisor at one o'clock on Thursdays but he has a conflict this week and so I'm waiting to hear back from the secretary as to when our meeting will have to be late in this week. So why don't we just say yeah, we will meet at 10:10 and I will just reschedule with him because he's got more available time than you do. It's his job to with me. Well, I guess so insensitive (ph). Anyway, let's reschedule. It won't be a problem.
THERAPIST: OK, if it won't be just let me know because I'll have one or two other times. I print (ph) a couple times out for people so I'm not entirely sure what I'll have but I'll have at least another time. So if for some reason you can't move that, you know, just let me know. We'll figure something (inaudible at 49:27).
MALE CLIENT: And if it turns out you've given that time to someone else, just let me know (inaudible at 49:30).
THERAPIST: No, this I'll hold for you. I'm going to hold this for you. But in terms of I should have at least one other time, I'm just waiting to hear back. But that's held for you. So if you could let me know in the next day, you know, if you can confirm that would be great. And then when you get back, we'll figure I still have you in on Wednesday and we can figure out a time. Maybe we'll meet that Wednesday, that two of us or we'll figure something out, OK? OK, great.
FEMALE CLIENT: Thank you.
MALE CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: OK, so I'll see you on Friday and you in a week-and-a-half. And I hope you have an OK Christmas.
FEMALE CLIENT: thanks.
MALE CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: I like t be realistic. I hope it's great, you know. [I want to be] (ph) sensitive. OK, take care guys.
END TRANSCRIPT